gsettings-info
==============

Description
-----------

Gsettings-info is a command line tool. It allows you to get gschema information which the gsettings command does not give. You can get summary, description, default value, and/or type of keys. If the specified gschema is gettextized and its message catalog is installed, you will get translated schema info.


Usage
-----

::

  $ gsettings-info help
  Usage:
    gsettings-info COMMAND [ARGS...]
  
  Commands:
    help    Show this information
    summary Get the summary of keys
    desc    Get the description of keys
    default Get the default value of keys
    show    Show the information of keys
  
  Use 'gsettings-info help COMMAND' to get detailed help


Example
-------

To get the descprition of the key 'autorotate' in the schema 'org.gnome.eog.view'

::

  $ gsettings-info desc org.gnome.eog.view autorotate
  Whether the image should be rotated automatically based on EXIF orientation.


If no key is given, you get the description of all the keys in the schema.

::

  $ gsettings-info desc org.gnome.eog.view
  autorotate: Whether the image should be rotated automatically based on EXIF orientation.
  background-color: The color that is used to fill the area behind the image. If the use-background-color key is not set, the color is determined by the active GTK+ theme instead.
  interpolate: Whether the image should be interpolated on zoom-out. This leads to better quality but is somewhat slower than non-interpolated images.
  extrapolate: Whether the image should be extrapolated on zoom-in. This leads to blurry quality and is somewhat slower than non-extrapolated images.
  transparency: Determines how transparency should be indicated. Valid values are CHECK_PATTERN, COLOR and NONE. If COLOR is chosen, then the trans-color key determines the color value used.
  scroll-wheel-zoom: Whether the scroll wheel should be used for zooming.
  zoom-multiplier: The multiplier to be applied when using the mouse scroll wheel for zooming. This value defines the zooming step used for each scroll event. For example, 0.05 results in a 5% zoom increment for each scroll event and 1.00 result in a 100% zoom increment.
  trans-color: If the transparency key has the value COLOR, then this key determines the color which is used for indicating transparency.
  use-background-color: If this is active, the color set by the background-color key will be used to fill the area behind the image. If it is not set, the current GTK+ theme will determine the fill color.


You can get a summary or a default value as well as description like that. Gsettings-info shows all the information of keys as below.

::

  $ gsettings-info show org.gnome.eog.view
  KEY: autorotate
  TYPE: b
  SUMMARY: Automatic orientation
  DESCRIPTION: Whether the image should be rotated automatically based on EXIF orientation.
  DEFAULT: true
  
  KEY: background-color
  TYPE: s
  SUMMARY: Background Color
  DESCRIPTION: The color that is used to fill the area behind the image. If the use-background-color key is not set, the color is determined by the active GTK+ theme instead.
  DEFAULT: '#000000'
  
  KEY: interpolate
  TYPE: b
  SUMMARY: Interpolate Image
  DESCRIPTION: Whether the image should be interpolated on zoom-out. This leads to better quality but is somewhat slower than non-interpolated images.
  DEFAULT: true
  
  KEY: extrapolate
  TYPE: b
  SUMMARY: Extrapolate Image
  DESCRIPTION: Whether the image should be extrapolated on zoom-in. This leads to blurry quality and is somewhat slower than non-extrapolated images.
  DEFAULT: true
  
  KEY: transparency
  TYPE: 
  SUMMARY: Transparency indicator
  DESCRIPTION: Determines how transparency should be indicated. Valid values are CHECK_PATTERN, COLOR and NONE. If COLOR is chosen, then the trans-color key determines the color value used.
  DEFAULT: 'checked'
  
  KEY: scroll-wheel-zoom
  TYPE: b
  SUMMARY: Scroll wheel zoom
  DESCRIPTION: Whether the scroll wheel should be used for zooming.
  DEFAULT: true
  
  KEY: zoom-multiplier
  TYPE: d
  SUMMARY: Zoom multiplier
  DESCRIPTION: The multiplier to be applied when using the mouse scroll wheel for zooming. This value defines the zooming step used for each scroll event. For example, 0.05 results in a 5% zoom increment for each scroll event and 1.00 result in a 100% zoom increment.
  DEFAULT: 0.05
  
  KEY: trans-color
  TYPE: s
  SUMMARY: Transparency color
  DESCRIPTION: If the transparency key has the value COLOR, then this key determines the color which is used for indicating transparency.
  DEFAULT: '#000000'
  
  KEY: use-background-color
  TYPE: b
  SUMMARY: Use a custom background color
  DESCRIPTION: If this is active, the color set by the background-color key will be used to fill the area behind the image. If it is not set, the current GTK+ theme will determine the fill color.
  DEFAULT: true


COMMAND COMPLETION
------------------

The program supports bash completion. To take advantage of the completion
feature, load completion/bash/gsettings-info in your ~/.bash_completion.
You can load it using the source command or dot (.) command. For more
details, see the bash manual ($ man bash).


REQUIREMENT
-----------

- xsltproc(1) (http://xmlsoft.org/xslt/)
- gettext(1) (http://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/)


Authors
-------

Jiro Matsuzawa <jmatsuzawa@gnome.org>


License
-------

This program is distributed under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
License, version 2.1 or later. See the COPYING file for details.
